## Part 1: Inline functions

***References:*** http://www.cplusplus.com/doc/tutorial/functions/

Calling a function generally causes a certain overhead (stacking arguments, jumps, etc...), and thus for very short functions, it may be more efficient to simply insert the code of the function where it is called, instead of performing the process of formally calling a function.

Preceding a function declaration with the `inline` specifier informs the compiler that inline expansion is preferred over the usual function call mechanism for a specific function. This does not change at all the behavior of a function, but is merely used to suggest the compiler that the code generated by the function body shall be inserted at each point the function is called, instead of being invoked with a regular function call.

For example, the concatenate function above may be declared inline as:

```c++
inline string concatenate (const string& a, const string& b)
{
  return a+b;
}
```

This informs the compiler that when `concatenate` is called, the program prefers the function to be expanded inline, instead of performing a regular call. `inline` is only specified in the function declaration, not when it is called.

Note that most compilers already optimize code to generate inline functions when they see an opportunity to improve efficiency, even if not explicitly marked with the `inline` specifier. Therefore, this specifier merely indicates the compiler that inline is preferred for this function, although the compiler is free to not inline it, and optimize otherwise. In C++, optimization is a task delegated to the compiler, which is free to generate any code for as long as the resulting behavior is the one specified by the code.

## Part 2: Normal function vs Inline function

***References:*** https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-difference-between-normal-function-and-inline-function-in-c++-language

The inline functions are a C++ enhancement designed to speed up programs.

> The coding of normal functions and inline functions is similar except that inline functions’ definitions start with the keyword inline.

The distinction between normal functions and inline functions is the different compilation process for them.

After writing any program, it is first compiled to get an executable code. Which is then executed, the OS loads the instructions into the computer's memory, so that each instruction is stored in a specific memory location. When a function call instruction is encountered, the compiler stores the memory address of the instruction immediately following the function call statement, loads the function being called into the memory, copies argument values, jumps to the memory location of the called function, executes the function code, stores the return value of the function, and then jumps back to the address of the instruction that was saved just before executing the called function.

The C++ inline function provides an alternative. With inline code, the compiler replaces the function call statement with the function code itself (this process is called expansion) and then compiles the entire code. Thus, with this the compiler doesn't have to do the long, time consuming process.

***Advantage of Inline Functions:*** They save on overheads of a function call as it's not invoked, rather its code is replaced in the program.

***Disadvantage of Inline Functions:*** With more function calls (for ex: in a loop), the repeated occurrences of same function code wastes memory space.
